All right, so I actually made a joke
we're not going to do anything
with meta mask right now.
It's actually a lot of typing.
And I just wanted you
guys to have it ready.
So that way when we actually
do it actually joke's on you.
I were gonna do it.
I did live type this because this
is actually how I felt when I was
writing this.
I was like, I don't want to do all this.
Okay, actually, yes,
I do want to do all this.
So this is my emotional roller coaster for
you all to write,
we're actually going to do this.
And I do a lot of live coding.
But there is one thing I will not
live code, which is a Webpack config.
I copy and paste this every single time.
So I'm gonna start from the tippy top, and
I'm going to scroll all the way down to
the bippity bottom, and
I'm gonna copy that.
I'm gonna go over to my editor,
I'm gonna go to my route and I'm gonna
go webpack.config.JavaScript, paste it
all in promptly navigate away from that.
I don't want to look at that,
or think about Webpack.
It's very, very annoying.
Webpack has two things that are important.
I have a source/index.hml, and
I have a source slash index.typescript.
Those are two files that will be
important here very, very shortly.
Also side note I am not a like
a super front end person so
we're not gonna be building anything
beautiful or involving any library.
Second we need to do this nice lovely
install statement again our node modules.
If this was stocks, these things are going
up, unlike my investment in opendoor,
which has currently gone down a lot, and
so yarn add, add all these things for
Webpack.
So let's go over to our terminal, paste
all those things in it will take a moment.
I don't know how to run the Webpack WebDev
server and I didn't want to take or
the dev server and I didn't want to
take the time to figure that out.
So I'm going to do a Python simple
server and host out my files that way.
If you know how to do it,
I have the config in there.
So you can choose which
way you'd like to do that.
And lastly, we should have a TS config
because this will make things not break.
So copy and paste these two options.
If you want to have a more
complete TS config, go for it.
These two are the ones that we
really need for this project.
The rest, they're just extra stuff
such as no implicit all right, so
tsconfig.json it's actually French I don't
know if that it's just on was a French.
That was a French thing and so
a lot of people get confused and
they call it Json which totally
wrong it's just on all right.
So next we're gonna to code
up a meta mask interaction.
And we're gonna get hello world from
our contract that's deployed on
our local network, but
it's gonna show up in our browser.
So this is gonna involve a lot of coding.
If you don't want to do a lot of coding,
the complete code is located right here.
So we're gonna, we're gonna get
there I may call things differently.
Because I am live coding.
I'm kind of free flowing off
the top of my head as opposed to,
say doing things correctly.
So let's create
the directory called source.
Inside of here I'm going to
create in dot index,html.
I'm gonna become an html programmer for
a moment.
So we're going to create a small html
file right here where I'm gonna go html
replace it with head because
I think you're supposed
to have that I'm actually not even sure
if you're supposed to have that or not.
I'm gonna have body properly
indented four spaces and
that's it we've just html
programmed our way into the future.
And put a little quick write in there and
let's create an index.typescript.
So there we go so this will be the code
we're obviously gonna be putting into
the browser and so we need to
import the correct address items.
So what we aren't gonna import
is the hard hat ethers.
This time we are gonna import from ethers
itself, which means that it doesn't have
some of those convenient methods because
it can't read from disk at this point.
We're not able to do what we did before.
And we too are not gonna
read our data from disk.
We're not gonna grab the very convenient
json build stuff, we're gonna
just kind of deploy it by hand to begin
with or contacted by hand to begin with.
All right, so the first thing we
need to do is that there's two
steps to connecting with Metamask.
It's kind of an interesting
piece of technology.
It can be a little bit
frustrating sometimes,
if you have a Metamask request up.
If you refresh the page, you get an error
when you request access to meta mask.
And they don't have a way for
you to listen when someone accepts it,
if you've read so anyways,
it's kind of annoying.
So I just do this to set two simple steps
that a mom in Arizona discovered that
Metamask hates.
So what I do is I go like this
async function has accounts.
I think I do have signers and
the other one and
all I do here is I simply grab
the Metamask object, and ask,
do I have any Aetherium
accounts currently?
And so, I'm gonna do one other
function right here called get it.
Just because I have the TS ignore it.
So, it's gonna go window dot Aetherium.
Right, adding Global's is just
always just so easy and not painful.
And so we're just gonna have this nice
little Ethereum object right there.
So I can just go const eth = window,
to or not that one,
what I've been doing, geteth, there we go.
So I got the Ethereum object,
the Ethereum objects placed on there.
When you have Metamask installed, so
now I'm gonna just do one
last little simple check.
I'm gonna go cost equals this.
If not,
he then we should probably throw new air.
I know you don't have to do this
because I assume everyone has it.
Get meta mask and a positive attitude.
There we go, fantastic return eight.
So there we go.
We have this nice little thing going
right here, we have the metamask object.
Once we have that, we can simply go
account equals await eth.request.
Then we're gonna pass
in this little object.
This is where we tell metamask,
what to go request, or
this is how we talk to metamask
to request data out of it.
I'm just gonna simply go method,
eth accounts and that's it.
And so
then I'm gonna go as string of course or
as string array which should give
you back an array of strings.
But, it technically gives you back an
undefined or an air if things aren't and
correct.
So what I'll do is just simply go
accounts and accounts.length, right?
As long as there's a length to
the accounts, we've effectively,
we have accounts.
We're good to go.
We're kind of hacking into this.
If you wanna develop a better solution,
you can, but for now,
we're just taking the easiest
possible way to get there.
So I'm gonna just take this method.
I'm gonna copy it.
And instead of has account.
Let's go here and go request accounts
everything's the same except for
we do eat request accounts.
Now if you already have a request open or
you already have it you're
going to get an error so that's why
that's why I do the has accounts first.
Then the request accounts pretty much the
exact same piece of code we could probably
be even smarter and create a nice
method here that you know does this..
And we just pass in the name but I usually
do the Martin Fowler's rule of three we
currently only have two duplication.
So no need to get super fancy here and
make it nicer.
So I assume everyone's
effectively caught up.
If not, there is always the website where
you can copy and paste these things out.
So let's do this a sync function run.
So this is where we're going to
do our main amount of coding.
I'm going to call the run function,
and we'll do it right here.
So if not, a weight has accounts
which is just OS requesting from
meta mask the accounts that exist.
And await 33 ot await request accounts
meaning if you try to request it and
it doesn't work you say no we're
here that means something bad
happened then we probably
should just throw new error.
Please let me take your money.
There we go, beautiful.
So now, if we get to line 31,
which is where I'm at right now,
we should have access to your
meta mask at this point.
Obviously there's this is not production
grade if you refresh if there's,
there's a lot of stuff still out there.
And meta mask is kind of difficult to play
with sometimes I actually filed an issue
where I was just like, hey,
if you do these steps, it doesn't work.
There's a workaround like this, but
I don't really like the workaround.
The person responded
with great workaround.
So I was like, okay, well, this is what
we're going with from here on out.
So it is what it is.
It's great piece of software.
It makes life super convenient.
But programming against
it's a bit a bit wonky.
Soo there we go we now have Metamask
available for us to access so
now we need to call our
contract from the browser Well,
much like the deploying,
we need a way to be able to point to it.
So this is what we're gonna do.
We're gonna go Cnst hello equals,
new ethers, contract.
Now what is in an ethers contract?
Let's see do we have it?
You requires an address or name,
the interface to the contract,
and a signer or a provider.
Now, this is very important to know
effectively we'll go over the specifics of
signer provider.
But you need these three items
to be able to contract or
contact a contract on any network.
So, let's go back to this thing and
let's simply go, alright.
We need an address we don't have that,
we need an interface to our contract we
don't have that, do we have a provider?
Yes technically we do have a provider,
r bbbbemember that whole meta mask thing.
Meta mask is a provider.
It abstracts away how
you contact the network.
So that way ethers doesn't have to
know how to contact the network.
It knows how to form proper
request to the network.
It doesn't know where the network's at.
And so we're gonna tell it where
the network's ads by simply
doing new ethers providers
.web3Provider(window.ethereum), right?
That's that whole, obviously,
I can just getEth, there we go.
Beautiful, so, now we've given ethers
how to contact the network, but
we haven't given it where on the network
and what does it look like, yet?
So, the first thing we need to do is give
it where on this network is our contract.
Well, we got to go back to our node.
We can go to the to section right here
because this is the contract that we
actually deployed in made.
I'm going to copy out this address,
and I'm going to intentionally not
very great software engineering practices
hard coded into our script right here.
Next we need to give it an interface.
Now we can handcraft these
interfaces actually fairly easy.
All I'm going to do is I'm gonna just
add a string that says function.
Hello, public pier returns
string memory just give it like
our literal string ification
of the function signature.
It almost looks like an interface.
So what I've just done is I told
a theory are ethers that this is
what is on the contract.
This is where the contract is at.
And this is how you
communicate to the contract.
And so ethers does the rest formulates the
requests, make sure everything's happened.
It properly waits for everything.
And so there we go.
Now we have hello.
>> So theoretically we should just be
able to like this document dot body dot
inner html.
Because we're dangerous around here we're
going to await for hello hello that.
So if I've done everything correctly
first try which I do every time this
should work out so let's go over to
a terminal let's launch Webpack.
So I'm gonna go Webpack launch it if I
have programmed everything correctly it
should give me all green
it gave me green fantastic.
Let's go to another terminal just
because I don't have a way to launch
the dev server if you not launch the dev
server I put the config in there.
I just didn't take time to
learn all those things so
I'm just gonna do a simple
server on port 6969.
And so there we go I'm now serving out
the disk, the build to my web pack.
And so we kinda have everything
all nice and lifted up.
We're ready to go.
We should be able to communicate.
So now I'm gonna open up a local
host at 69 69 and it says, hello,
front end masters.
So we have communicated from the browser
to our local node running through meta so
that's actually pretty cool,
because MetaMask is just a drop
down to other networks, right?
And so Ethers doesn't have to
know where the network is at.
It just needs to know how
to communicate there.
And if we look at our node, you'll notice
that it was called again, for Helloworld.
We actually have two in a row
Helloworld calls All right, let's see.
Let's go back here.
Let's make sure I didn't miss anything.
So here's the complete code.
So if you want to, you can go through here
and go to this complete code right here.
And so let's take a moment kind of think
about all the things that just happen
there because hopefully this
is kind of exciting for me.
This was actually this was
actually a pretty cool moment.
Because I just saw the full circle happen,
right?
I wrote a programme where
I told it where it was,
what it looked like and how to contact it.
And I was able to call a remote
function with little to no effort.
For me that is pretty neat.
I was able to specify the remote
function in a fairly simple language.
Also pretty neat and what I didn't do
anything with the server I don't have any
worries about uptime it just
simply exists out on a network.
And if I was able to put this on
the main net I don't want people Spend
money to do that,
It would exist forever and
I'd be able to call this thing as much as
I'd like and I'd get the data back out.
And I can call these functions for free.
That's pretty neat.
I have a forever living function
that will live out there.
Right now It's on my local net.
So that's, not very forever right now, but
nonetheless, that was pretty neat, right?
Like that's very unusual
programming paradigm.
It's like lambda functions.
But a bit more extreme, right?
So it's kind of a cool concept.
And this for me really was the moment
where I went, wow, web three is pretty.
That's pretty coom, I like that.
So I'm sure there's a few
gaps in your knowledge.
First off,
any questions thus far at this point now.
>> How to spin up the,
>> The Little server yeah,
I just did a simple Python server so
I did a python three module http
server and here's the port.
So the contract is just floating
out there on the ether network and
it's being connected to through meta mask.
When are the guest fees incurred.
>> Great question so we're actually gonna
go over gas here shortly but there's
a distinction in the network there's two
types of requests that you really need to
understand those that cost gas and those
that do not cost gas I know crazy, right?
But whenever you do a call to
a certain set of functions,
it does not require any gas.
Let's just for
fun look at the function that I created.
What can you say about this function?
Does it alter the network in any way?
No, therefore it's free.
Does it, so it doesn't write to any state
doesn't matter how complex the call is.
It does not alter the state
of the Ethereum network.
Therefore it is free.
I'm going a little bit ahead of
time just to kind of answer that.
So our contract Yes,
it does float out there somewhere, but
it has an address much like your house.
Or where you live it has an address
we have a way to get there which is
the provider.
And we have the shape of it which is that
little interface that we wrote and so
by having those three pieces you can
communicate via RPC to the network for
a specific contract for
specific function and get out data.
>> Can you ever upgrade or change the code
once it's deployed to the blockchain?
>> Beautiful question.
We will actually get there.
Hopefully there's enough time.
We will get there.
It is exceptionally complex.
But yes, there's are ways around this
whole problem because the reality is
if I were to relaunch my contract.
I would create a new
contract with new state.
Once it's launched, it is launched,
it is immutable you cannot change it,
you cannot change the code
out of underneath it.
But there are ways around that make it so
that you can change the code, So
it sounds like I just contradicted
myself but once you see it,
it will make ten times more sense.